---
title: "App"
bg: blue
color: white
fa-icon: check-square-o
---

### App

#### Use i18n right from the start

Try to start with `__('translation placeholders right from the beginning').` It's not really important to start with multiple languages, but you will be forced to avoid any shortcuts. when having i18n in mind, some implementations end up quite completely different than in your first sloppy preview-code (which remains in production for months!).

#### Use UTC

Streamline **all** your data in your database to one timezone. Best case: UTC is the perfect match for all web apps. Simple reason: There's no clock change to/from daylight saving time in UTC.

Using UTC has a second, big big advantage! Saving time values in a foreign timezone helps you implement features correctly. It's easy to find a wrong datetime during implementation when `app-timezone !== developer-timezone`.

And, of course, when using unix timestamps, it makes really sense to use UTC. every unix timestamp is always based on UTC. So, when your app is based in Europe/Vienna, you can't transform datetimes to timestamps back and forth. you will always loose really important information.


##### Use `strftime()` instead of `date()`

**Never ever** use the `date()`-method. It will always return english time formats. Use `strftime()` and time-strings like day or month names will automatically change the locale (when setting the locale via `setlocale()`).

The same is unfortunately true for `DateTime->format()`. Avoid it.

Having problems with the kind of unusual syntax required for `strftime`? Well, [strftime.net](http://strftime.net/) might help you a lot! :)
