---
title: "database"
bg: orange
color: black
fa-icon: database
---

### mySQL Database

#### Percona Database

Ever heard of Percona? It's a drop in replacement for mySQL. So, with little to no effort, you can increase the performance of your db quite easily.

#### Foreign Keys

Always define your foreign key relationships directly within your database. Why? If one of your multiple code bases try to insert wrong data, mySQL will tell you. You won't end up with a messed up database and don't need to maintain a long list of (mostly outdated) cleanup sql-scripts, which you run every now and then. In addition, when applying foreign keys, you're forced to double-check your newly created columns. If the column definition does not match (100%), foreign key creation will fail.

What about ON DELETE CASCADE? Well, it's complicated: When deleting a big chunk of data, have in mind, that the `delete from table;` statement might block the table. If this is a no go for your app (24/7 availability), try to do app-based bulk-deletes instead.

#### Encoding

Well, there's the obvious. You should use UTF-8 for all your web projects. The non-obvious? The UTF-8 encoding in mySQL is not real UTF-8. If you would like to store emojis, than you need to use UTF8MB4. You will love it. For sure.

#### Index all your stuff

Your database gets bigger and bigger and bigger and … slower and slower and slower? Indexing is the most cost efficient and valuable help out there. Read all about [database performance optimizations through indexing](http://use-the-index-luke.com/), or talk to Markus Winand!

To put it all in a nutshell: Create indizes for all columns you have in your WHERE and ORDER clause. The order of the columns within an index is really important.
